---
title: "Preparing Metadata Runtime Platform"
weight: 4
---
<!-- 1. [Modular MOM](c:\users\anil.birajdar\desktop\temp\index.html)
1. [Before You Start](c:\users\anil.birajdar\desktop\temp\Before-You-Start_127740192.html)
1. [Quick Start to Developing with Opcenter Modular Manufacturing](c:\users\anil.birajdar\desktop\temp\Quick-Start-to-Developing-with-Opcenter-Modular-Manufacturing_134455239.html)
1. [How to Create a Configurable Object](c:\users\anil.birajdar\desktop\temp\How-to-Create-a-Configurable-Object_125339498.html)
# **Modular MOM : Preparing MetadataRuntime Platform**  -->
Created by Unknown User (sergey.postoyalko), last modified by Alvarez Villanueva, Beatriz on Nov 08, 2021 

To prepare the MetadataRuntime Platform, you will need to build the required solutions located in the MetadataRuntime repository in the right sequence. You can do it in one of the following ways:

- [Using Visual Studio](#PreparingMetadataRuntimePlatform-PreparingMetadataRuntimePlatforminVisualStudio) where you will need to open and build each solution.
- [Running the PowerShell script](#PreparingMetadataRuntimePlatform-PreparingMetadataRuntimePlatformUsingPowerShellScript) that will build the required solutions in the right sequence automatically.
## **Preparing MetadataRuntime Platform in Visual Studio**
1. Open Visual Studio.
1. Build **ObservabilityAspects.sln** located in <*path of your folder for source code*>\MetadataRuntime\Automation\ILWeavers\Observability.
1. Build **ObservabilityAspects.Tests.sln** located in the same folder.
1. Build **Camstar.AOP.Aspects.sln** located in <*path of your folder for source code*>\MetadataRuntime\Automation\ILWeavers\Metadata.
1. Build **Platform.sln** located in <*path of your folder for source code*>\MetadataRuntime\Platform\InputMetadataModel\SampleModel.
1. Build **Camstar.Core.SampleModel.sln** located in <*path of your folder for source code*>\MetadataRuntime\Platform.
## **Preparing MetadataRuntime Platform Using PowerShell Script**
1. Run PowerShell as administrator.
1. Go to <*path of your folder for source code*>\MetadataRuntime.
1. Execute this command:

.\BuildAll.ps1

1. If an error occurs, execute the command again.
1. Close the appeared Command Prompt window where **Siemens.MOM.Platform.Api.exe** was run after executing the script.
## **Next Step**
[Set Up a New Model from Template](c:\users\anil.birajdar\desktop\temp\Setting-Up-a-New-Model-from-Template_127733030.html)

Document generated by Confluence on Jul 28, 2022 11:21

[Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/)
**Created with an evaluation copy of Aspose.Words. To discover the full versions of our APIs please visit: https://products.aspose.com/words/**
